## Introduction
XML is designed to encode data in a way that's easier for humans and machines to read. The layout of an XML document is somewhat similar to an HTML document, although there are differences in implementations.
For example in the following code:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<contact>
    <firstName>Tom</firstName>
    <lastName>Jones</lastName>
</contact>
```

The first line indicates the declaration of an xml document.
The "contact" in the code is an xml element, and is being defined in the 2nd and last lines.
The "firstName" and "lastName" are sub-elements and are declared inside of the "contact" element.

## XML Parsing
An application that relies on data stored in the XML format will inevitably make use of an XML parser or processor.
The parser is responsible for the analysis of the markup code.
Once the parser finishes processing the XML data, it passes the resulting information back to the application.

XML processors can suffer from different types of vulnerabilities originating from malformed or malicious input data.
Depending on the programming language an XML parser is written in, these primitives can eventually be chained together to achieve devastating effects such as:

-   Information Disclosure
-   Server-Side Request Forgery
-   Denial of Service
-   Remote Command Injection
-   Remote Code Execution

## XML Entities
Document Type Definitions (DTDs) are an interesting feature of XML.
In very general terms, an XML entity is a data structure typically containing valid XML code that will be referenced multiple times in a document.

XML Entities are like variables in a programming language, they can be a placeholder for some content, and can be referred to and updated in a single place and propagate throughout a given document with minimal effort.
There are 3 types of XML Entities:
- Internal
- External
- Parameter

**Internal Entities**
Internal entities are _locally_ defined within the DTD.
These are defined as follows:

```xml
<!ENTITY test "<entity-value>test value</entity-value>">
```

**External Entities**
External entities are used when referencing data that is not defined locally.
A critical component of the external entity definition is the URI from which the external data will be retrieved.
There are 2 types of external entities:
- Private
- Public

It is defined by the SYSTEM keyword, that indicates a private external entity for use by a single user or perhaps a group of users.
This entity is not made for wide-spread use.
A private external entity is defined as follows:

```xml
<!ENTITY someinfo SYSTEM "http://something.com/something.xml">
```

In comparison, a public external entity is for a much wider use case.
The PUBLIC keyword indicates that this is a public external entity.
It is defined as follows:

```xml
<!ENTITY someinfo PUBLIC "-//W3C//TEXT companyinfo//EN" "http://something.com/something.xml">
```

**Parameter Entities**
Parameter entities exist solely within a DTD, but are otherwise very similar to any other entity.
Their definition syntax differs only by the inclusion of the _%_ prefix:

```xml
<!ENTITY % info 'someinfo'>
<!ENTITY Title 'some info is %info;' >
```

## Unparsed External Entities
An XML entity does not have to contain valid XML code. It can contain non-XML data as well.
In those instances, we have to prevent the XML parser from processing the referenced data by using the _NDATA_ declaration as follows:

```xml
<!ENTITY name SYSTEM "http://something.com/someinfo.xml" NDATA TYPE>
<!ENTITY name PUBLIC "public_id" "http://something.com/someotherinfo.xml" NDATA TYPE>
```

Something very interesting is that, we can access binary content with unparsed entities. This can be important in web application environments that do not have the same flexibility that PHP offers in terms of I/O stream manipulation.

## Vulnerable XXE
External entities can often access local or remote content via declared system identifiers.
An XML External Entity (XXE) injection is a specific type of attack against XML parsers.
In a typical XXE injection, the attacker forces the XML parser to process one or more external entities.
That means the main prerequisite for the attack is the ability to feed a maliciously-crafted XML request containing system identifiers that point to sensitive data to the target XML processor.

