## Microservices

With the adoption of "Agile" software development, some development teams have moved away from monolithic web applications in favor of many smaller ("micro") web services.
These services provide data to users or execute actions on their behalf.

The term microservice can refer to these individual services or to the architectural pattern of decomposing applications into multiple small or single-function modules.
The main pro of microservices, is that the developers can now deploy individual services independently, as microservices provide basic functionalities without any dependencies.

In this type of environment, microservices are often run in containers and must intercommunicate.
Since containers and their IP addresses are ephemeral, they often rely on DNS for service discovery.
For instance, docker networks created with Compose(A Cloud Database Platform), treat each container's name as their hostname for networking purposes.
Applications running in Docker containers can then connect to each other based on those hostnames without needing to include IP addresses in their configurations.

Each microservice module exposes its functionality via an API.
When an API is exposed over HTTP or HTTPS, it is called a **web service**.
The 2 common types of web services are:
1. SOAP
2. RESTful

Rather than expose microservices directly on the Internet, an API gateway acts as a single point of entry to the service.
Since API gateways often provide controls (such as authentication, rate limiting, input validation, TLS, etc), the microservices often do not implement those controls independently.
This means, if we can somehow bypass the API gateway, we could subvert these controls or even call backend services without authenticating.

## Web Service URL Formats

Each API gateway routes requests to service endpoints in different ways, but URLs are often analyzed with regular expressions.
For instance, an API gateway might be configured to send any URI that starts with /user to a specific service.
It's the service's job to further be responsible to determine the difference between /user/delete or /user/new endpoints.

An example of an API called Best Buy is:

```bash
curl "https://api.bestbuy.com/v1/products/8880044.json?apiKey=YourAPIKey"
```

Firstly, the request goes to a specific API subdomain.
This, is followed by "v1". This means that there can be more than one versions of an API being used, without breaking the existing integrations.
The next part, is the "products", which is the service being called.
Finally, is the requested SKU and date format.

There are others ways as well, to deal with requests, depending upon how the API is set up.
Taking haveibeenpwned.com as our next example:

```bash
curl "https://haveibeenpwned.com/api/v3/{service}/{parameter}"
```

Unlike our previous example, this API is called from the main domain.
However, to refer to the api, it is given inside the URL path, followed by the version, service called and it's parameters/arguments.

In case of GitHub:

```bash
curl "https://api.github.com/users/octocat"
```

There is an API subdomain.
There's no versioning as the default one is used, if none is mentioned.
The remainder of the URL path follows the pattern of a service and a parameter, in this case "users" and "octocat", respectively.