## DotNet Decompilation
To understand and read the compiled managed .net code, we'll first need to decompile the web application compiled with a dotnet compiler such as Visual Studio.

To decompile dotnet managed code, we'll be using [dnSpy](https://github.com/dnSpy/dnSpy) decompiler and debugger.
_dnSpy_ uses the [ILSpy](https://github.com/icsharpcode/ILSpy) decompiler engine to extract the source code from a .NET compiled module.

## Example 
As an example we can compile a very simple console application and decompile it using dnSpy.
The code for the application is as follows:
```csharp
using System;

namespace dotnetapp
{
    class Program
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            Console.WriteLine("What is your favourite Web Application Language?");
            String answer = Console.ReadLine();
            Console.WriteLine("Your answer was: " + answer + "\r\n");
        }
    }
}
```

Saving this in a notepad file, we can proceed to compile it with:
```cmd
c:\Users\Administrator\Desktop>C:\Windows\Microsoft.NET\Framework64\v4.0.30319\csc.exe test.cs
```

Once compiled, we can now use dnSpy decompiler to decompile our code by simply dragging the test.exe executable inside dnSpy.
To view the source code of this executable, we'll have to expand the _test_ assembly navigation tree and select _test.exe_, _dotnetapp_, and then _Program_


**Cross-Referencing**
When analyzing and debugging more complex applications, one of the most useful features of a decompiler is the ability to find cross-references to a particular variable or function.
cross-references are useful to better understand the code logic.

**Modifying Assemblies**
We can use this technique to add debugging statements to a log file or alter an assembly's attributes in order to better debug our target application.


## Decompiling Java Classes
While there are many tools that we could use to decompile Java bytecode (with various degrees of success), we will use the _JD-GUI_ decompiler.
Java-based web applications primarily consist of compiled Java class files that are compressed into a single file, a Java ARchive, or JAR, file.
Using JD-GUI, we can extract the class files and subsequently decompile them back to Java source code.

We use the following java code to create a simple java application:
```java
import java.util.*;

public class test{
	public static void main(String[] args){
		Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);
		System.out.println("What is your favorite Web Application Language?");
		String answer = scanner.nextLine();
		System.out.println("Your answer was: " + answer);
	}
}
```

We can then compile this in our kali with the following command:
```sh
javac -source 1.8 -target 1.8 test.java
```

Now, in order to package our class as a JAR file, we will need to create a manifest file.
This is easily accomplished by creating the JAR/META-INF directory and adding our test class to the MANIFEST.MF file.
```sh
mkdir META-INF
echo "Main-Class: test" > META-INF/MANIFEST.MF
```
We can now create our JAR file by running the following command:
```sh
jar cmvf META-INF/MANIFEST.MF test.jar test.class
```

We can now copy the jar file back to our windows machine and use JD-GUI to decompile it. To decompile the file, we can simply drag the jar file inside JD-GUI.
We can also search the decompiled classes for arbitrary methods and variables with JD-GUI.