# Methodology
Once we have obtained the source code, we're ready to tackle source code analysis.
Before we dive in to source code analysis,  we should spend some time walking through the web application in a browser to familiarize ourselves with its functionality.
We should proxy our browser traffic through Burp Suite while we are doing this so that we can analyze the HTTP requests and responses generated during normal use of the application.

An application's attack surface depends on many factors including its intended use cases and its software stack.
When we are analyzing application source code, we need to be mindful of _sources_ and _sinks_.
Data enters an application through a source, and is used (or operated on) in a sink.

**Top Down Approach**

We would identify sources first.
If we do not have authenticated access to the web application, we would obviously begin searching for vulnerabilities in unauthenticated resources.
Tracing the application flows to their respective sinks, we would then attempt to identify any sensitive functionality and determine what controls are in place (such as input validation).

**Bottom Up Approach**
We would identify sinks first.
Our goal would be to determine if any sinks contain vulnerabilities and what variables or values the vulnerable code uses.
We would then need to determine how the application calls the vulnerable function and trace the application flow back to a source.

**Comparison**
A "bottom up" approach is more likely to result in higher-severity vulnerabilities with a lower likelihood of exposure. A "top down" approach, however, is likely to uncover lower-severity vulnerabilities with a higher likelihood of exposure.

## IDEs
An _integrated development environment_ (IDE) is a powerful tool for source code analysis.
We will be relying heavily on visual studio code.
During a manual source code analysis, we'll spend a great deal of time searching code and refining our searches.

We could begin with a search for "password"
we can refine our search by clicking the _Toggle Search Details_ button.
we could limit our search to only Java files by entering ".java" in the _files to include_ field.
As with any search filter, we want to avoid "over-filtering", which may exclude important results, essentially creating false negatives.
If a search term returns too many results, we could use unique keywords from the application to narrow the search results.
For instance tracing back "incorrect credentials"

If we identify a vulnerable function and need to determine where the application uses it, we can search for "references"

## HTTP Routing
We need to analyze the source code of an application and understand how an application receives an HTTP request and determines what code to run to generate the associated HTTP response.
This is known as _HTTP Routing_.
Our goal is to trace the flow of a request through the application.
The web server, programming language, and framework used by an application all influence its HTTP routing configuration.

**File System Routing**
Maps the URL of a request to a file on the server's filesystem.
In this scheme, the web server defines a _document root_, where it stores externally accessible files.

**Servlet Mappings**
Some Java applications use _Servlet Mappings_ to control how the application handles HTTP requests.
A "servlet" is a shorthand for the classes that handle requests, such as HTTP requests.
They implement code that accepts a request and returns a response.
A web.xml file stores the HTTP routing configuration.

While there can be multiple entries in a web.xml file, each route is made up of two entries:
1. entry to define a servlet
2. entry to map a URL to a servlet

In the following code:
```java
<!-- SubscriptionHandler-->
<servlet id="SubscriptionHandler">
  <servlet-name>SubscriptionHandler</servlet-name>
  <servlet-class>org.opencrx.kernel.workflow.servlet.SubscriptionHandlerServlet</servlet-class>
</servlet>
	
<servlet-mapping>
  <servlet-name>SubscriptionHandler</servlet-name>
	<url-pattern>/SubscriptionHandler/*</url-pattern>
</servlet-mapping>
```

1. The code, defines a servlet with the "SubscriptionHandler" id for the _org.opencrx.kernel.workflow.servlet.SubscriptionHandlerServlet_ class. 
2. A "servlet-mapping" entry maps the /SubscriptionHandler/* URL to the SubscriptionHandler.

Each programming language and framework offers variations.


