## Local Debugging
One of the best ways to understand an application is to run it through a debugger, which allows us to inspect application memory and call stacks.

As an example, we can debug a simple java application in VS code.

We start by createing a sample java application that is a number guesser game.
We will use the following code:
```java
import java.util.Random;
import java.util.Scanner;

public class DebuggerTest {

  private static Random random = new Random();
  public static void main(String[] args){
    int num = generateRandomNumber();
		Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);
		System.out.println("Guess a number between 1 and 100.");
		try{
      int answer = scanner.nextInt();
      scanner.close();
      System.out.println("Your guess was: " + answer);
      if(answer == num) {
        System.out.println("You are correct!");
      } else {
        System.out.println("Incorrect. The answer was " + num);
      }
    } catch(Exception e) {
      System.out.println("That's not a number.");
    } finally {
      scanner.close();
    }
    System.exit(0);
  }

  public static int generateRandomNumber() {
    return random.nextInt(100)+1;
  }
}
```

We can debug this application right from our IDE.
Visual studio has many capablities for a running function. We can set a breakpoint at (int num = generateRandomNumber();)
and running various functionalities which are as follows:
1. Continue -  the application will resume execution until it completes or hits another breakpoint.
2. Step Over - allows the next method call to execute and will pause execution at the next line in the current method. (In our case, it would execute the call to _generateRandomNumber()_ then pause when execution on the next line)
3. Step Into - would follow the execution flow into _generateRandomNumber()_ and pause on the line where the function is being called.
4. Step Out -  allows the current method to run and then pauses when execution is passed back "one level"
5. Restart/Stop - Self-explanatory
6. Hot Code Replace - allows us to modify the source file and push changes to the executing process.(not available in all languages)

## Remote Debugging
Some debuggers also support debugging a process running on a remote system. This is known as _remote debugging_.
It allows us to debug a process running on a different system as long as we have access to the source code and the debugger port on the remote system.

Once we successfully open a project in our IDE, we will need a launch.json file to perform remote debugging.
Visual Studio Code will create one for us if we click on the _Run_ shortcut and then click _create a launch.json file_.
We need to update the "hostName" value to "127.0.0.1" and the "port" value to 9898. We'll then save the changes.

Now that we have configured launch.json, we can run the JAR file with debugging enabled. We will include the (-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=9898) flag to enable debugging on port 9898. 
Since we are only specifying a port number in the _address_ option, the debugger socket will only listen on localhost.

Command:
```sh
java -agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=9898 -jar NumberGame.jar
```

Now that we have selected the configuration we want, we can start the debugger by clicking the _Start Debugging_ button (the green arrow).