## Understanding Types of XSS

While Cross-Site Scripting is the formal name, it's easier to think of it as JavaScript injection.
It's important to note that XSS vulnerabilities can't directly lead to remote code execution of the server.
However, it can lead the attacker to the authenticated part of the web application, where further vulnerabilities can be found which might lead to some type of code execution.

Unlike many other vulnerabilities, a cross-site scripting vulnerability is not exploited because an application accepts untrusted user input.
Instead, an application is vulnerable because it **outputs** untrusted input.

Cross site scripting can be classified into 3 broad categories:
1. Reflected XSS
2. Stored XSS
3. DOM based XSS

A reflected XSS payload is only exploited via a crafted link or a targeted redirect from another site.
Conversely, a stored XSS, as the name implies, saves the payload into the database, and will exploit every victim that visits the vulnerable page.

In addition, stored and reflected XSS can also be classified either by server XSS or client XSS.
This refers to the location in the application architecture that the payload is outputted.

With server XSS, the application server is appending the untrusted user input to the HTML document without any output encoding.
With client XSS, the non-malicious client-side JavaScript is appending untrusted user input to the DOM without any further encoding.

While server XSS can be discovered by sending a request and reviewing the response, client XSS must be discovered by using a browser or auditing the front-end JavaScript code.

